CISC 3300 S25 
Homework 4 
1. How does an interpreted programming language differ from a compiled language? 
An interpreted language, the source code is not directly translated by the target machine. Instead, a different program, aka the interpreter reads and executes the code. A compiled language,is expressed in the instructions of the target machine; this machine code is undechiplable by humans
2. Contrast dynamically typed programming languages with statically typed ones. And contrast strongly typed programming languages with weakly typed ones. 
Dynamically typed languages are performed at runtime, meaning the type of a variable is allowed to change. With static, the type is bound to the variable. Types are checked at runtime
3. What is the difference between var, let, and const when declaring variables in JS? 
Var is more old school, global + function speed and redclarable. Let is block scoped, and redeclareable. Const is blocked scoped and not redeclarable
4. What are anonymous functions? Higher order functions? Callback functions? First class functions? 
Anonymous functions are functions without a name. Higher order functions return a function or take other functions as arguments. Call back functions passed as an argument to another function to be called later. First class functions are if functions in that language are treated like other variables
5. Define objects in JavaScript. 
An object is a collection of properties, and a property is an association between a name or key and a value. A property’s value can be a function, in which case the property is known as a method. 
6. Loop through the cats array variable found here: https://github.com/cisc3300/SP25-lecture-code/blob/main/2-13-lecture/cats.js a. if the cats adoption status is available add that cat’s name to a result array b. create a new sentence about your newly adopted cats from your result array via the join array function. 
7. Create a variable that sets a value via a ternary operator. Use Math.random() * 10, which will output a random number from 1 to 10, to set the variable’s value as a string of “greater than five!” if the output from Math.random() * 10 is greater than 5, and “less than five!” if the output is less than 5. 
8. Loop through the values of the cat object variable found here: 
https://github.com/cisc3300/SP25-lecture-code/blob/main/2-13-lecture/cats.js Console.log the value of each property in the loop. 
9. Write two if statements, pick the correct comparison operator to have the first if statement equate an integer of 1 and a string of ‘1’ as true. And pick the correct comparison operator to have the second equate an integer of 1 and a string of ‘1’ as false. 
10. Using the map function create a new array via the cats array used in question 6. Pass the map function a callback function that accepts each element of the array as a parameter. Return the value of the name property of each object in the cats array concatenated with the string “ is cute!”. The output should be an array of “Charlie is cute!”, “Lily is cute!”, etc. 
Include questions 6-10 in a single JavaScript file or HTML file via a script tag.
