CISC 3300 S25 
Homework 6 
1. Define hoisting and closures in JS. 
Hoisting is variables and functions within each execution context are created before they are executed.Closers are the ability of a function to remember the variables and functions that are declared in its outer scope.

2. What is PHP? What do server side languages do in web development? 
Php stands for hypertext preprocessor. It's used on a majority of websites. Server Side languages process user input and interact with other servers
3. What are some examples of how the PHP and JavaScript programming languages are alike and how they differ? 
They both are dynamic and weakly typed. However PHP does Refrence counting with garbage collection, while JavaScript has an automatic garbage collection. When a variable's reference count drops to zero, its memory is freed. For java script, its garbage collector automatically reclaims memory from objects that are no longer in use. 
4. Why pick PHP over another server side scripting language like Python or Node? 
Because PHP is more straightforward and arguably easier when it comes to syntax. However PHP might not be as efficient when it comes to performance

5. Compare and contrast echo and var_dump. 
Echo command is a way to output text. It is for one or more expressions. Var dump dumps information about one or more variables. The information holds type and value of the variables- can print out primitive values
6. Create a new PHP project, in the index.php file create: 
a. An associative array with keys and values. 
b. Loop through the array and echo out a string that contains each key and value. 7. Add to question 6: 
a. Create a function that has: 
i. a set return type 
ii. an optional parameter 
iii. a typed parameter 
iv. and call your function with values that have the correct data types
 8. Create another PHP project that includes a “resources” directory. In the resources directory create an HTML file that has elements to show an image, also place an image in the resources directory. When the domain is accessed in a browser(localhost), return the HTML page with the working image.
