CISC 3300 S25
Homework 8
1. What are sessions and cookies? What do they do?
When a user visits a website, the website can tell a browser to store data about the user and their visit in a text file called a cookie. Sessions are also text files that store information about a user and their preferences on the server

2. What is SQL? MySQL? What are relational databases? 
Structured query language (SQL) is a standard language for database creation and manipulation.MySQL is a relational database program (one of many) that uses SQL queries. 

3. What is normalization in SQL?
avoid data duplication by using relationships. This is called normalization. Normalization organizes the columns and tables of a database to ensure that database integrity constraints properly execute their dependencies.we use relationships so that our data can scale and be normalized

4. What are primary and foreign keys?
A primary key is the field (or fields) that is used to uniquely identify each record in a table. There are three requirements for a primary key: It cannot be null, it must be unique, and there can be only one defined per table. You can define a primary key by creating a primary key index after the table is created.

5. Write statements to:
a. create a new database in phpmyadmin (or use the one from the in class
assignment)
b. create a notes table, include the following columns:
i. id, which should be an integer type, have space for 11 characters, not be
nullable, and auto increment, set the id column as the primary key
ii. title, which should be an varchar type, have space for 80 characters, and
not be nullable
iii. description, which should be an text type, not be nullable

6. Write statements to
a. insert some data
b. update some data
c. delete some data
7. Write queries to
a. select all notes and order them by name in reverse alphabetical order
b. select the second note in the table only, assume that you don’t know the ID
number of it
c. select all notes that have descriptions which contain vowels

Include SQL statements from questions 5-7 in a sql file in your submission.

